>> Sarah Drasner: SVG, all right, you
probably heard me rumble about SVG before.
But in case you haven't, SVG is awesome.
Look, we're talking about that piece
of graph paper we talked about earlier.
And you have points that you're creating,
you're basically saying, go here,
go here, go here, go here.
And then the browser makes a curve for
you, you've just plot in,
you've just communicated a few numbers,
and
the browser knows to make
these beautiful curves and
all these different fashions based on
some letter you stuck in front of it.
How cool is that?
There's so
many ways that you can play with SVG and
one of the things that I really like
about SVG that has a navigable DOM.
So, if you're used to
working with the DOM and
you don't wanna learn, with Canvas,
you're learning Canvas.
But with SVG, you can really literally
slap a class on one piece of the DOM and
start to move it around.
And it's in these layers
that are kind of intuitive.
So if you have, let's say you have my
face and my body, and you have my hands
that's separate from my arm, you can move
the hand around separately from the rest.
Cuz they're not all flattened together,
right?
Like if it was an image that's a JPEG,
you would have to cut my hand out,
find the background to replace it on top
of and then absolutely position my hand
on to that area but if you just have
little eyes that are on that canvas,
you can just move the eye around,
all you need to do is find it in the DOM
and if it breaks, it's in the DOM link.
And like, you're like yeah,
okay, I see you and
you can see, you can debug directly
in your browser, super cool.
SVG can be super performance too.
So it can be like the most performed, like
a lot of the things that I make are like
under 5 kilobytes,
even though they're totally crazy.
But it depends on how many
path points you draw.
So, unlink those other ones where
we're plotting every pixel,
we're plotting all of those points.
If you have a million
bazillion path points,
then that's going to be really expensive.
Whereas, just a few is cheap.
So drawing a circle, very cheap,
drawing a few lines and stuff, very cheap.
If you have like a texture, that's like
that's probably gonna be really expensive.
You can reduce path points for
SVG and make them much smaller,
I have a article in CSS tricks,
it's not linked up here but
if you wanna see it later,
it's increase performance with SVG or
something, write performance SVG,
it'll probably come up.
CSS tricks has pretty good SEO and
it runs through all of the tips
that I use to reduce the file size.
I worked for one company where
we actually got a project and
used a lot of SVG, and
I reduced the load time
from 12 seconds to 2 seconds by
optimizing all of the SVGs correctly.
So, there are ways of like,
even if it visually looks the same,
there are ways of working with the SVGs
that can completely change file sizes.
And you can do so much fun stuff with it,
like, this is a huggy laser
panda factory that I made.
Because that's where all the huggy laser
pandas are made is this factory, and
then you can kind of scroll it down and
it reconfigures, and
it works on responsive,
even old mobile phones and
stuff because it's just click events and
the DOM, and that's it.
It's just some small
request animation frame.
[LAUGH]
SVG actually can make
other images smaller.
This is a tool from a friend of mine named
Shaw, who's definitely worth following.
I just grabbed a random image.
I didn't even carefully
select an image for this and
the output size went from 88
kilobytes to 16.75 kilobytes.
So this is a really cool
tool to check out, too.
And I mentioned before,
SVG can be parts of your layouts, so
if you learn how to draw those bits,
again,
SVG can constrain to any proportions and
it can even take up any spaces.
So if you want to like absolutely position
an SVG within a DIV to make a diagonal or
some other line, that's a really
cool way for you to be able to make
interesting shapes that people can't
usually make in their browser.